===================
Community structure
===================

Building up and keeping alive a software community is a long term
project. It requires time, energy, resources and money.  This work is
currently done by `Rumma & Ko <http://www.saffre-rumma.net/team/>`_ a
small Estonian company whose CEO is Luc Saffre, the author and
maintainer of Lino.

But Lino is Free Software, so it cannot be used as capital.  That's an
important reason for private organizations to *not* invest into Lino
and its community.  Especially bigger corporations led by experienced
managers are aware of that fact.

Yes, there are bigger private organizations who invest into free
software, for example `Canonical
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canonical_(company)>`_, or `Red Hat
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Hat>`_. But Rumma & Ko has no plans
of going that path because we believe that Free Software should be
governed by a public organization which does not have any private
motivation on its own.

Lino targets the market of :doc:`customized database applications
</about/customized>`, a market that is currently dominated by
proprietary frameworks. Free software is a rather exotic new idea for
these people.  An exception to this rule is the `Odoo Community
Association (OCA) <https://odoo-community.org/>`__ which can be a
source of inspiration for us when the Lino community becomes bigger.

In order to open the door for this evolution, Rumma & Ko has created
an organization on GitHub called the `Lino Core Team
<https://github.com/lino-framework>`__ which owns the different
repositories that make up the Lino Framework.

